Dev docs update: Pay With AI3, Auto SDK, LLM Docs (#93)
autonomys/developer_docs: pages/sdk/auto-drive/pay_with_ai3.mdx

---
title: Pay with AI3 — Developer Integration
---

# Pay with AI3 — Developer Integration

This page covers how to integrate permissionless Auto Drive credit purchasing into your own application using the `AutoDriveCreditsReceiver` smart contract and the credits API.

For the end-user purchase walkthrough, see the [Pay with AI3 guide](/auto_drive/pay_with_ai3).

---

## How It Works

The payment system is built around a **payment intent** model. Each purchase follows four steps:

1. Your app fetches a **price quote** from the backend — reflects the live protocol-level DSN storage cost via a Substrate RPC connection to the Autonomys consensus chain, plus a service fee.

> 2. The backend creates a **payment intent** — a server-side record that locks the price and binds a `bytes32` intent ID to the authenticated account for up to 10 minutes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Your app asks the Auto Drive backend to create a **payment intent** — a server-side record that locks the price and binds a `bytes32` intent ID to the authenticated account for up to 10 minutes.
```

3. Your app calls `payIntent(intentId)` on the `AutoDriveCreditsReceiver` contract on Auto-EVM, sending the exact quoted AI3 amount as `msg.value`.
4. Your app submits the transaction hash to the watch endpoint; the backend polls for **6 block confirmations** and then grants the credits.

> Credits are available immediately after confirmation and can be used via the dashboard, the AutoSDK, or the REST API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Credits are available immediately after confirmation and can be used via the dashboard, the Auto SDK, or the REST API.
```

| **Contract** | `AutoDriveCreditsReceiver` |
| **Network** | Autonomys Auto-EVM |
| **Chain ID** | `870` |
| **Address** | `0xBa5bed8325183c0807EcBC80C82D40Dc7Ac5cbf7` |

View on Blockscout: [AutoDriveCreditsReceiver](https://explorer.auto-evm.mainnet.autonomys.xyz/address/0xBa5bed8325183c0807EcBC80C82D40Dc7Ac5cbf7)

### `payIntent`

```solidity
function payIntent(bytes32 intentId) public payable whenNotPaused;
```

`intentId` is the `bytes32` value returned by `POST /intents/`. Send the exact quoted amount as `msg.value` — the transaction will fail if the value does not match.

The `whenNotPaused` modifier allows the protocol team to pause payments in the event of a critical issue.

### Event

```solidity
event IntentPaymentReceived(bytes32 indexed intentId, uint256 paymentAmount);
```

Emitted on successful payment. Listen for this event to confirm receipt before calling the watch endpoint.

---

## Payment Intent State Machine

```
PENDING ──► CONFIRMED ──► COMPLETED
   │
   ├──► EXPIRED   (no payment received within 10 minutes)
   │
   └──► FAILED    (payment amount below the quoted price)

CONFIRMED ──► OVER_CAP  (account's 100 GB purchased credit limit exceeded)
```

> > Always fetch a fresh quote immediately before creating an intent. Prices reflect live protocol costs and can change between requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Always fetch a fresh quote immediately before creating an intent. Prices reflect live protocol storage cost and can change between requests.
```

---

## API Reference

Base URL: `https://api.autonomys.xyz`

### Get a Price Quote

```http
GET /intents/price
```

Returns the current AI3 cost (in Shannons) per GB. No authentication required.

**Example response:**

```json
{
  "pricePerGb": "1000000000000000000",
  "currency": "AI3"
}
```

---

### Create a Payment Intent

```http
POST /intents/
```

Locks the current price for the authenticated account and returns an intent ID.

> > **Authentication:** Requires a Google OAuth token in the `Authorization` header. The intent is bound to this account — credits cannot be redirected elsewhere.

Reviewer: We actually want an API key owned by a Google auth'd account? The way this is worded could be a little confusing.

Author: I believe that's what we need to include for the check to succeed, rephrases to sound a bit less confusing.

Locks the current price for the authenticated account and returns an intent ID.

> > **Authentication:** Requires a Google OAuth token in the `Authorization` header, please see the examples below.

Reviewer: This needs a tweak - it's Auto Drive authorisation for an Auto Drive account using Google OAuth.

Not to be confused with the user's Google OAuth token.

Should it read "Requires an Auto Drive API key..."? I can't remember if account public Id can be used too?

Author: okay I checked the statement against a reference implementation -> user needs to pass the API key that is created by the account created via GAuth, updated the message for clarity and correctness. Thanks for your thorough review!
